---
title: 2018
portfolioYear: 2013
chapter: 6
chapterTitle: Listening in a Noisy World
part: II
partTitle: Learning to Swim
date: 2020-10-25
layout: layouts/post.njk
draft: true
---

<span class="small-caps">Our heroine re-learns how to make friends</span> and hosts Sunday dinners.

<!-- excerpt -->

<h2>Chapter 6</h2>
<h3>Listening in a Noisy World</h3>

This was the year I noticed it had become hard to read long-form books. Without realizing it, my attention span had diminished. I no longer read books the way I used to—I skimmed to get to the juicy plot twists, the big idea... the point... as quickly as possible. I also spent less time interacting with people in person.

I began to disengage from the digital noise that did not enrich my life. I took my headphones out at the gym, and opened myself back up to conversations with strangers. I realized I missed connecting with people and listening to their stories. I made plans with new and old friends to have Sunday dinner almost every week for the rest of the year. It wasn’t easy to put in the effort to prepare and host dinner nearly every week, but it was worth it. We still host the occasional Sunday dinner.

Inspired by the lettering workshops, I revitalized my calligraphy practice. I hand-lettered the Save the Date and the Invitation for our upcoming wedding and have continued to practice calligraphy since.

### tl;dr: Year in Review

* got married in April
* produced and delivered 21 newspapers on time, including two 40-plus page special editions
* TA’ed [Typefaces You Can Write with a Pen and Brush with Carl Rohrs](http://coopertype.org/event/typefaces_you_can_write_with_a_pen_brush_2), [Modular Lettering with John Downer](https://letterformarchive.org/events/view/modular-lettering/), and [Erik vs James with Erik Marinovich and James Edmondson](http://coopertype.org/event/erik_vs_james)
* climbed V8 at my local climbing gym

### Lesson Learned
Connecting with people is simple and requires just two things: compassion and listening. 